What is an API How It Works An
API, or Application Programming Interface, is a
set of rules and protocols
that allows different software applications to communicate
with each other. How APIs
Work Client sends a request
to the API API processes and forwards
to the server Server performs the operation Response is
delivered back to the client
REST APIs REST APIs use standard
HTTP methods: GET retrieves data POST
creates new data PUT updates existing data
DELETE removes data Authentication When you use an API,
you typically need: API key or
access token Rate limiting to prevent abuse
Proper permissions for resources Data Formats
APIs return data in various
formats: JSON is the most
popular XML is also common Uses key-value pairs Real-world
Examples Google Maps API for maps Twitter API for
social media Stripe for payments Weather APIs for forecasts
APIs have revolutionized software development by enabling different applications
to work together seamlessly.